So I've kind of touched
on this a lot of times.
And a lot of the things that we have
already done and already talked about in
terms of our process, a way of managing
projects, will help with scope creep.
But I didn't wanna pull it out
particularly at this point, because this
is often where scope creep really kinda
kicks off from a design perspective,
if you've shown the design, and
then the goalposts begin to move, right?
But I think it's important to say that
scope creep isn't inherently bad,
that digital does allow us to
adapt to projects as we go.
And especially if we break it into those
stages that I talked about, right?
So the discovery, the prototype,
the build, the live between
each of those phases is an opportunity to
take stock and to pivot your direction.
So if you get to the end of the discovery
phase and you learn about some constraints
on the project, that may mean
you have to change the scope.
Or you might learn something about your
user group, which means that you wanna
introduce some functionality you
hadn't previously considered.
Or it may be that after the prototype
stage, you didn't test very well and so
you need to add a different
feature that you'd missed out.
That's fine, those are opportunities baked
into the process to do that kind of thing.
But that's not to say that
we don't need a strategy for
dealing with maybe the less useful scope
creep that comes in at random intervals.
And the technique that I use is really,
really simple that I create
a backlog of post launch work packages and
test scenarios.
So, and again I do this in notion
because I seem to be obsessed with
that app at the moment.
And effectively what I'm doing is every
time somebody comes up with an idea,
I say,
great let's move that into my backlog for
we'll assess it once we've got
the main bulk of work done.
And it can be involved in our
post-launch iteration phase.
And then there'll be other occasions where
people will say, I'm not sure this works
or that doesn't, and our responses
were let's test that, all right?
And I use that a minute ago deny as
an excuse for us for it not to happen.
But actually, you should actually write
down, okay, there's a test scenario that
we need to run at a later date in order
to confirm this particular thing.
So now, of course,
getting a client to accept that,
it's difficult if you suddenly
drop it on them, right?
But if you build it into the process
from the very beginning,
you've set people's expectations.
So if right at the beginning
when you discuss, look,
these are the stages
we're gonna go through.
If you discuss live, if you say that
once we go live with this website,
that's not the end of the project,
that's not the end of the engagement,
there is opportunity to evolve and
improve the project at that stage.
Then, absolutely,
is gonna be a lot easier when you start
talking about adding things that phase.
The other thing is I'm always the one to
first come up with an idea of our scope,
right?
So which sounds weird, but
it actually works really well.
Because if you're the first person
to come up with an idea of scope and
your response to your own idea is,
we shouldn't do that now but
we'll put it in that backlog for
post launch.
Then you're kind of applying the rule to
yourself and not just to other people.
And this list is brilliant.
This is gold dust, because this is your
opportunity to actually evolve and
improve the website after it goes live.
And if you happen to work for
an external agency, this is a roadmap for
ongoing work.
And if you work in-houses,
it's justification for
ongoing investment in this particular
product rather than getting abandoned and
allowing it to decay over time.
So really, having that kinda
backlog is really useful tool.
Another little bit of advice I wanna give,
and
again this is gonna sound
awful when I say it.
A little bit of advise I wanna give in
terms of how to deal with comments that
you get back and scope creep in particular
is, never say no to scope creep.
[LAUGH] That sounds awful.
Because you're thinking, no,
I need to say no, we can't do that,
we don't have the budget,
we don't have time.
It's just the word, no.
And it's how we go about dealing with it.
The trouble is that scope creep, sorry,
the word no has immediately
confrontational, right?
And probably untrue in
a lot of situations.
I get this, I'm on the other side
of it with developers often, right?
I love you developers, but there
are just some times when it gets tricky.
So I'll come up with some design and
the developer turns around and says, no,
we can't do that.
And I know they're blatantly lying,
because you can do anything if you've
got endless time and money, right?
So, actually no is not correct, right?
Instead, it's a matter of
unpacking that and saying why,
braising those questions
around that subject, right?
Let me give some examples and
it'd be a lot clearer.
We could do that but it would add
an extra two months to the timeline,
is that feasible?
See how much better that is right?
Or well, I estimate that cost
about an extra two grand,
do you have the budget for that?
Or okay, that's great,
we can definitely do that,
what feature are we gonna
drop to make that happen?
Or would you prefer to deal
with this post-launch or
do we wanna push back the launch date?
It's another really good one.
I think I'll probably need to see
the business case to justify that,
is that something you mind putting
that together so I can have a look?
Makes such a difference how you word it,
and you word it as a question.
The one I particularly
like out of that is,
would you prefer to deal with this
post-launch or push back the launch date?
This is actually a parenting technique
that I learned [LAUGH], right?
If you want your child to eat vegetables,
right,
if you say to them,
you have to eat your carrots,
they will say no, right?
But if you say would you like carrots or
broccoli, right?
They'll pick one out of those two choices,
okay?
And that's exactly what I've
done with that question,
would you prefer to deal with
it post-launch or now, right?
So think about how you're handling
those conversations and interactions.
And think about the words you use, because
they make an enormous difference to
whether or not you're gonna be able
to deal with your scope creep,
whether you're gonna be able
to do your feedback, etc.